Welcome back.
We learned that there can be many execution context but you might be asking yourself what about variables
that are created inside of these individual execution context.
That is variables inside of functions and we have a place for that.
On top of the execution context of this in arguments we also have a little space over here called variable
environment.
This is a place that variables can live in in these different stack worlds.
I mean they all technically live in our JavaScript engine memory but they need to know how they relate
to one another.
Some functions have access to certain variables and some don't remember what I said before.
You can think of each execution context like its own little planet its own little universe.
These worlds don't really communicate with each other or know of each other.
Well kind of for now.
So what type of thing do we have in this variable environment let's have a look at a little example
let's say I create two functions we have function to that has variable is valid we're not assigning
it to anything we're just declaring this variable we have function one in this function will have once
again variable is valid and we'll give that valid equal to true and then we'll also call the function
two in here finally we'll also add a variable is valid here we'll say false in here and then finally
on line eleven we'll call the one function all right that looks extremely confusing but let's go step
by step and see what happens when it comes to variable environments the first thing that happens while
we have function declarations.
So these get hoisted and put at the top allocating memory space for them we also have is valid which
is a global variable and is assigned an undefined when it gets hosted then we start running or executing
our code during the execution phase.
The very first step is line 10 where we assign false to is valid.
So in the memory space we change on defined to now false.
So that is valid equals to false.
The second step is line eleven where we run one we invoke the function in a new execution context is
created on top of the step if we can think about it like this we just created a new execution context
the third step is while we go into the function and we have line six over here where we have the variable
is valid that will be put into the new execution context that is this variable will be put in the local
environment or the variable environment and then we run function too.
So a new execution context is created.
And on top of the stack we add to so now we go into the two world and in the two world we have a new
variable that's being declared.
Initially it's undefined but then when we actually see this while nothing's being assigned to it.
So this remains undefined so let's think about this in terms of variable environment in the global environment.
That is remember at the very bottom of the stack we have the global execution context.
While we have variable is valid equals 2 FALSE.
So this is going to have false as its variable in the one execution context.
The local environment or variable environment is going to have a variable called is valid that is going
to equal to true.
It doesn't really care about what's happening in the global execution environment or the global world.
It only cares about what's inside it for itself.
When we go to two well to we already have is valid as well but this is valid is going to be undefined.
So each of these worlds carry information or variables and data that they have access to.
And when we finish executing the functions that is line two gets done in function too well we pop off
this off the stack and that memory space for is valid is gone and then we pop off one and that memory
space for is valid is also gone.
And then finally once we're done with the year we can clear everything and all the memory is gone from
our program.
Now this variable environment a place where we store information and by the way when I say store information
some of this information can be on the actual call stack or the execution context remember this is just
a call stack or it could be a reference to somewhere in the heap in the memory heap that perhaps we
might have an object.
Now this is something we're gonna use in some upcoming videos but keep in mind each execution context
has its own variable environment let's learn more about this in the next video by.